We get the basic crud operations with mongodb covered, how you can insert, find, update and delete elements
with mongodb
and you also learned how to connect to mongodb.
Now let me show you how you can now work with relations and for that, let's work with some users again.
Now with sequelize, we didn't have an authentication flow
and we will not have one here either
but now I want to create new users at the beginning here.
And for that, I'll first of all work on my user model of course, I'll keep it real simple but of course
I'll again a normal javascript class again.
So let me create a new class, user and add a constructor and in that constructor, I'll get a user name
and an email
let's say and then I'll just store this in a name property and in an email property. And you could add more,
you could work with this however you want. I'll then add a save method to be able to save that user to
the database
and of course I'll also add a static method for finding a user by ID
and here I'll get the user ID as an argument.
Now here's your challenge,
try this on your own,
pause the video here and try implementing this on your own.
Try using mongodb and that central mongodb connection we have to save a user with the help
of the save method and to find it by ID
Good luck,
after a short break which gives you the chance to pause to video, we'll solve this together.
Were you successful?
Well let's start by first of all importing our mongo database client,
so I'll name this db again and I'll import it by requiring our database file in the util folder
and there I'll use or I'll access get db and I'll name this get db up here too.
Now let's start with the save method
and there I'll create a new constant, db and I'll call get db to store my database client in that constant.
Now on that client, on this constant here, we can reach out to a collection and obviously this will now
not be the products collection but we could name it users collection if we wanted to.
Now in this collection, I want to insert one new element here and that new element will be this,
so this javascript object we're in,
so an object with a name and an email property, this is what I want to store as a user for now.
Now with that, we can again use the then and catch if we want to or we just return that and let whoever
calls this listen to that
if there is need for that. Now we can also work on find by ID already
and there I again will get access to my database client
and then I will return db collection users
and here, I now want to use find again to find a specific user.
We can narrow the user down by comparing the _id and now the important thing here is of course
that you need to convert user ID which I expect to be a string here to an object ID.
So let me import mongodb by requiring mongodb like this
and now here I'll follow a slightly different approach which I also already showed before and I'll create an objectid
constant and simply store access to it by accessing it up here
but I'm not calling it, I'm not creating an object in here,
I'm just storing the reference to the objectid class in my objectid constant
and then down there, I can just write new object ID
thanks to my constant up there and pass user ID to it.
And this should find me all fitting users and I therefore get back a cursor
and now I can call next to get the first
and as we know only element that matters to us, so now I'm returning this here. As a side note, you could
also use find one if you are sure that you only find one element
and this will now not give you a cursor but immediately return that one element,
so then this would be an alternative and I will use that here
but of course this is something I haven't shown you before,
so if you used find and next, that's perfectly fine.
So here I'll use find one
and now I got two methods in place that should allow me to create new users and to then find that user.
Now with that user model added, let me go back to the app.js file
and in there I will import my model.
So here I'll import user by requiring user from /models/user like that. With user imported,
first of all we had some code here which I want to comment back in where I want to find a user with this
ID here and then store it in the request,
so I will still use that here,
however I'll change the ID in a second.
First of all when connecting,
I also want to add some code to see if a user with a certain ID exists and for that, I will actually
create that user here in compass. So I'll connect to the shop database and I'll create a new collection
here, users
and of course this collection name here should be the collection name you chose in your code.
I'll create a new collection and then go into that collection
and now if you have a look at your user model, here I'm storing a name and an email for a new user.
So if we want to create one behind the scenes in compass, we can insert a new document here
and here is the automatically generated ID and I can enter a name and you can use any name you want
here
and of course an email and insert that document.
And now it's this ID, this part here between the quotation marks that matters to me,
I'll take that and I'll use that in app.js.
So here I could now create that user if it didn't exist
but of course I now know it exists because I created it behind the scenes,
later we'll add a real authentication flow where users can sign up by themselves,
no worry.
But here in my middleware
where I find a user by ID, I can now search for that ID and I convert that in the user model,
remember that is why I can use a string here.
Ok
so now I have that in place again,
I get access to my user
and now we're at least prepared to set up a connection between our product and our user which we can
use later.
So let me save that,
that should work
and in the next lecture
let's use that user object and store a reference to that user in our database.